# PnAT : Tools for Analysis and Visualization of Petri nets

PnAT is a set of tools to analyze and visualize Petri nets and and its reachability graph. It is an implementation of the ideas around a component-based framework presented in (http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.864.7243&rep=rep1&type=pdf). PnAT works well with [Yasper] (www.yasper.org), a modeling and simulation tool for Petri nets. The idea is that a user defines a Petri net model in Yasper and then uses PnAT in conjunction to analyze structural and behavioral properties. Some properties such as OPN, leg and choice properties are specific for models describing communicating component-based system. Such models can be described in Yasper using the subnet concept and interpreting reference places as interface places of a component. Beware that subnets more than one level deep are uninterpreted. 

When you download PnAT, you will find two executable JAR files, namely 

  * **LaunchPetriNetAnalysis.jar**
    * Input: Accepts a Petri net model in PNML format (tested against models from Yasper and Tapaal). Yasper is the recommended editor.
    * Analysis Options
      * state machine net
      * workflow net
      * open petri net
      * choice and leg properties
    * Generator Options
      * reachability graph (with bounds on number of steps)
      * coverability graph
      * skeleton 
    * Others
      * reload-file
  * **LaunchReachabilityGraphAnalysis.jar**
    * Input: Accepts a reachability graph file in DGS format (generated by the LaunchPetriNetAnalysis.jar application)
    * Analysis Options
      * Weak termination
      * strongly connected components
      * path finder: select a node in the visualization to see its marking and visualize a set of paths from the initial node and back to it
    * Other
      * reload file

# Author
 * Debjyoti Bera, Den Bosch, The Netherlands

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).
